What are the new rules on 
rent increases?
From 1 March 2026, a new national system of rent 
control applies to all private tenancies and Student 
Specific Accommodation (SSA). Under this system: 
	 Rent can only be increased once per year by 2% - 
or by inflation if that’s lower. The rate of inflation 
is measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI). 
	 For private tenancies created after 1 March 2026: 
Re-setting to market rent is allowed in specific 
cases. These are: 
– When a new tenancy begins (but only if the 
last tenancy ended because the tenant left 
by choice, breached their obligations or if the 
property no longer suits their needs). 
Annual increase allowed Re-setting to market rent
Private tenancy started before 
1 March 2026
	 2% - or rate of inflation 
(CPI) if lower
	 Not allowed
Private tenancy started after 
1 March 2026
	 2% - or rate of inflation 
(CPI) if lower
	 Allowed at beginning of new tenancy, 
except after a ‘no-fault termination’
	 Allowed at end of 6-year tenancy cycle
New private apartment 
(construction commenced after 
10 June 2025)
	 In line with inflation (CPI). 
No 2% cap applies.
	 Allowed at beginning of new tenancy, 
except after a ‘no-fault termination’
	 Allowed at end of 6-year tenancy cycle
Student specific 
accommodation (SSA)
	 2% - or rate of inflation 
(CPI) if lower
	 Allowed once every 3 years from 
1 March 2029
New SSA (construction 
commenced after 10 June 2025)
	 In line with inflation (CPI). 
No 2% cap applies.
	 Allowed once every 3 years from 
1 March 2029
Setting and reviewing 
rent from 1 March 2026: 
A guide for landlords
– At the end of a 6-year tenancy cycle (Tenancy 
of Minimum Duration). 
	 For existing tenancies created before 1 March 
2026: Re-setting to market rent is not allowed.
Exceptions: 
	 For new apartments and SSA (construction 
commenced from 10 June 2025): Annual increases 
can follow CPI, there is no 2% cap.
	 Re-setting to market rent for SSA: Only allowed 
once every 3 years from 1 March 2029.
	 Approved Housing Body and cost rental tenancies: 
National rent control rules do not apply. 
Step 3: Complete a rent setting or rent 
review form  
	 Go to rtb.ie and download a Notice of Rent 
Setting or Notice of Rent Review template.
	 Complete the notice and save a digital copy in 
.PDF format. 
	 Collect and save all other documents that 
should accompany your rent setting or rent 
review notice. For example, a printout from the 
RTB Rent Register or RTB Rent Calculator. 
Step 4: Send to your tenant and the RTB 
	 For a rent setting notice: You must send the 
notice to your tenant and the RTB at the start of 
the tenancy. 
	 For a rent review notice: You must send the 
notice to your tenant and the RTB at the same 
time. Make sure you serve it at least 90 days 
before the new rent will take effect. 
	 You can send the notice to your tenant by post 
or email. If you send it by post, we recommend 
that you keep a record of postage. 
	 To submit your notice to the RTB, go to the RTB 
Service Centre at rtb.ie and upload your notice. 
	 If you cannot submit the notice online, you can 
post it to: 
 Residential Tenancies Board, 
PO Box 13841, Freepost FKY7736, 
Killorglin, Co Kerry. 
 You should keep a record of postage. 
Step 5: Add rent details to your tenancy 
registration record 
	 Log in to your Tenancy Registration Account and 
make sure that the rent details are updated on 
your registration record. 
5-step guide to setting or  
reviewing rent correctly
Step 1: Check rent control rules 
Before you begin, use the reference table in this 
leaflet to check the rules that apply for your rent 
setting or rent review.
Step 2: Calculate new rent 
Choose the correct route to calculate your rent and 
follow the instructions: 
	 Route 1: My rent increase is capped  
	 First, go to rtb.ie and use the RTB Rent 
Calculator to calculate the maximum rent 
increase allowed. 
	 Next, use the RTB Rent Register at rtb.ie to 
confirm that your rent setting is not above 
market rent. You will need examples of rent 
paid for three similar properties. 
	 Route 2: I can set to market rent  
	 Market rent is the amount a tenant 
would reasonably pay a landlord for a similar 
home in a comparable area at the time the 
tenancy begins. From 1 March 2026, if you are 
setting to market rent you must:  
– Give your tenant a statement that the new 
rent is not above market rent  
– Include details of rent paid for three 
similar properties from the RTB Rent 
Register in your statement. 
	 To begin, visit the RTB Rent Register at rtb.
ie to find comparable rents. 
Need more help?
The Residential Tenancies Board regulates Ireland’s rental sector.  
For detailed information and support to comply with rental, visit rtb.ie